{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria Math;}{\f3\fnil Cambria Math;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.10240}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9                                                                      M S Praveen Kumar \par
                                                      Email: mspraveen1703@gmail.com\par
                                                                   Phone: 80956 20097 \par
\cf1 OBJECTIVE \cf0\b0\par
To pursue a career in a progressive organization and play pro-active role that will enable me to acquire professional skills, excellence and an opportunity to perform to the best of my potential and contribute solutions to challenges in the field of information technology. \par
\cf1\b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY \par
\cf0\b0\f1\u10625?\f0     An extremely motivated and proficient individual with overall 4.3 years of experience in a demanding corporate environment  \par

\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\tx7920\tx8280\tx8640\tx9000\tx9360\tx9720\tx10080\tx10440\tx10800\tx11160\tx11520\f1\u10625?\f0      Around 2.6 years of experience as a\f2  \f0 Cloud\f2  \f0 Engineer\f2  \f0\lang1033  AWS - Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) -Platform as a Service (Paas) and Ericsson India Global Services. \par
\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  \f2 Expert in Cloud Technologies : Amazon Web Services (AWS): VPC, EC2, S3,IAM, RDS, ELB, ASG, EBS, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail, Terraform.\f0\lang1033\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\u10625?\f0  Creating\f2 /\f0 Managing\f2  \f0 AMI\f2 /\f0 Snapshots\f2 /\f0 Volumes\f2 , \f0 Upgrade\f2 /\f0 downgrade\f2  \f0 AWS\f2  \f0 resources\f2  (\f0 CPU\f2 , \f0 Memory\f2 , \f0 EBS\f2 ) ,Managing DNS Records.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0    Architecting secure VPC solutions with the help of Network ACLs, Security Groups, Public and private network configurations . \f2 Strong Experience in Amazon EC2 setting up instances and security groups.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  \f2 Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 buckets and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.\f0\lang1033 Monitoring\f2  \f0 servers\f2  \f0 thorough\f2  \f0 Amazon\f2  \f0 Cloud\f2  \f0 Watch\f2 , \f0 SNS\f2\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  \f2 Excelled on creating AMI (AWS Machine Images) that utilizes ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) and Auto Scaling.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  \f2 Created alarms in Cloud watch service for monitoring the server performance.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  \f2 Experience over server less architecture using AWS Lambda.Able to write python scripts using boto3.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  \f2 Expertise over AWS for infrastructure provisioning automation using Terraform\f0\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \f2 Managing to Redshift by designing, implementing, automating, executing, analyzing and  then driving and implementing improvements into Redshift in a continuous integration environment.\par
 \f1\u10625?\f0   \f2 Experience \f0\lang9 Seting up MySQL (Master and Slave) Server, Multiple MySQL Instance with a different port.\f2\lang1033 Backup and recovery of RDS instances.\lang9\par
\f1\u10625?\f0      \f2 Worked on git & having strong knowledge on branching, tagging and resolving the \f1\u10625?\f0      \f2 conflicts\par
\f1\u10625?\f0      \f2 Knowledge on Docker Including Docker Installation, Creating Images and Containers.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0      \f2\lang1033 Knowledge on build tools like MAVEN\par
\cf1\b\f0\lang9 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE \b0\par
\cf0\f1\u10625?\f0     Worked as an Assistant Engineer with Ericsson global services, Bangalore from December 2016 \f3\endash\f0  June 2019\par
\cf1\b\lang9  TECHNICAL SKILLS \par
\cf0\b0\f1\u10625?\f0     Operating Systems: Windows\f2  \f0 XP\f2 ,\f0 7\f2 ,\f0 8\f2  \f0 and\f2  \f0 10\f2  & \f0 LINUX\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Database : Amazon Redshift                                \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Tools: Git, GitHub,Maven,Docker\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Cloud Services: \f2 EC2, ELB, S3, VPC, IAM, SQS, Lambda, Cloud Watch,Auto Scaling,Route53, Terraform,RDS,Amazon Redshift,DynamoDB\f0\par
\b\lang9 PROJECT EXPERIENCE \par
\b0 Project #1       : Vodafone UK Ryders Operations \par
Duration          : November 2018 to June 2019\par
Role                  : Assistant Engineer\par
Team Size        : 20+ \par
\b\lang1033 ENVIRONMENT\f2 :-\b0\par
\f0 AWS\f2  (\f0 Amazon\f2  \f0 web\f2  \f0 services\f2 ):\f0 EC2\f2 , \f0 VPC\f2 , \f0 IAM\f2 , \f0 S3\f2 , \f0 CLOUD\f2  \f0 FRONT\f2 , \f0 CLOUD\par
WATCH\f2 , \f0 TERRAFORM\f2 , \f0 RDS\f2  \f0 CONFIG\f2 , \f0 ROUTE\f2  \f0 53\f2 , \f0 SNS\f2 , \f0 SQS\f2 , \f0\lang9\par
\b Responsibilities\b0 : \par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Involved in Designing and Deploying of multiple applications which are mostly using AWS environment (\lang1033 VPC,Subnets ,EC2, EBS, ELB, SSL, Security Groups,NACL RDS and IAM\lang9 ) to focus on cost effective, fault tolerance and highly available systems.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   Responsible for launching EC2 cloud instance using Amazon web services with respective to specific applications and region.\f2\lang1033  \f0\lang9 Installing and configuring the Linux servers as per request in AWS.Worked closely with EC2 infrastructure teams to troubleshoot complex issues.\par
\~\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access.Support for all other AWS products such as S3, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing, Route53 (DNS).\~\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Assisted customers with common connectivity issues by reviewing subnet, security group, ACL, routing,VPN, ELB, Auto Scaling, RDS.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9  Worked on storage service Amazon S3 to store and retrieve media files such as images and used Amazon Cloud Watch monitor the application and to store the logging information.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Day to day administration of the Development environment and Production and Test environment systems 24x7 on-call support.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Designing and building multi-terabyte, full end-to-end Data Warehouse infrastructure from the ground up on  Redshift for large scale data handling Millions of records every day.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Installed and Setup Web Servers ( Apache and Tomcat ), DB Server ( MySQL).\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Log Analysis, Maintaining documents of production server error log\rquote s reports.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Providing data for a weekly and monthly report to senior management.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Installed and Setup MySQL (Master and Slave) Server, Multiple MySQL Instance with a different port.MySQL Database security, creating users and managing permissions.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Optimizing and tuning the Redshift environment, enabling queries to perform faster.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033   \f0\lang9 Worked on AWS Data Pipeline to configure data loads from S3 to into Redshift\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033  \f0\lang9 Defined and deployed monitoring, metrics, and logging systems on AWS.\par
\f1\u10625?\f2\lang1033  \f0\lang9 Responsible for ensuring that overall system performance, efficiency, and scalability objectives are met\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \lang9 Troubleshooting the compilation errors and provide the technical support to the developer\rquote s team on that issue.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \lang9 Creating branches & merging using Git.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0  Manage Amazon Web Services as per the customer requirement \par
\par
\b\lang9 Project 1\par
\b0\f1\u10625?\f0     Client: O2 - Telefonica                                                   \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Operating System: Linux, windows    \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Database : Amazon Redshift                                \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Tools & Services: Git, GitHub\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Duration: January 2017 to October 2017 \par
\b ENVIRONMENT\f2 :-\b0\par
\f0 AWS\f2  (\f0 Amazon\f2  \f0 web\f2  \f0 services\f2 ):\f0 EC2\f2 , \f0 VPC\f2 , \f0 IAM\f2 , \f0 S3\f2 , \f0 CLOUD\f2  \f0 FRONT\f2 , \f0 CLOUD\par
WATCH\f2 , \f0 TERRAFORM\f2 , \f0 RDS\f2  \f0 CONFIG\f2 , \f0 ROUTE\f2  \f0 53\f2 , \f0 SNS\f2 , \f0 SQS\f2 , \f0\par
\b\lang9 Responsibilities\b0 : \par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \f2\lang1033 Worked closely with EC2 infrastructure teams to troubleshoot complex issues.Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \f2\lang1033 Support for all other AWS products such as S3, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing, Route53 (DNS).\~\par
 \f1\u10625?\f0   \lang1033 Created the VPC\f2\rquote\f0 s, configured the subnets, created Nat gateway, attached the internet gateway and routing tables to the subnets and deployed the EC2 instances in the subnets created. \par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \f2\lang1033 Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access.Support for Customer accounts which are hosted on AWS.\f0\lang9 Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances.Configuring and Networking of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).\f2\lang1033\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \f2\lang1033 Assisted customers with common connectivity issues by reviewing subnet, security group, ACL, routing,VPN, ELB, Auto Scaling, RDS.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \f2\lang1033 Manage and configure AWS services as per the business needs (ELB, SNS, EC2, Route 53, S3, RDS, Cloud Watch, IAM, and VPC.\f0\par
\f1\u10625?\f0   \lang9 Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Webservices (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     \lang9 Created alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     \lang9 Create database maintenance plans for the performance of SQL Server including database integrity checks, update database statistics, re-indexing and data backups.\par
 \f2    \f1\u10625?\f0     Experience in handling the Storage tasks with S3 Buckets Lifecycle Management, Versioning of S3 \lang1033\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Troubleshooting the compilation errors and provide the technical support to the developer\f2\rquote\f0 s team on that issue.\lang9\par
\f1\u10625?\f0    Creating/Managing AMI/Snapshots/Volumes, Upgrade/downgrade AWS resources (CPU, Memory, EBS) \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     Performed operations on auto scaling and load balancing\par
\f1\u10625?\f0      \f2 Worked on git & having strong knowledge on branching, tagging and resolving the conflicts\par
\par
\f0\lang9 Organization : Capita India Private Limited\par
Designation   : Insurance Band 7\par
Experience     : 9 months \par
Duration          : December 2015-August 2016\par
\par
Organization : Adecco India as a pay role worked for  Infosys BPO Limited \par
Designation   : Process Associate \par
Experience    : 12 months \par
Duration         : November 2014- Nov 2015 \par
\par
\cf1\b Personal Information \par
\cf0\b0 Date of Birth: 17th March 1989 \par
Languages Known: English, Telugu, Tamil \par
Hobbies: Photography \par
\cf1\b EDUCATION \cf0\b0\par
\f1\u10625?\f0     B Tech(Electrical and Electronic Engineering) from JNTU university, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh with an aggregate of 62% in the year of 2011 \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     +2 (MPC) from the Board of Intermediate Education, Andhra Pradesh with an aggregate of 79% in the year of 2007 \par
\f1\u10625?\f0     SSC (10th) from the Central Board of Secondary Education. Tamilnadu with an aggregate of 72% in the year of 2005 \par
\lang9\par
I solemnly affirm that the information submitted above is correct to the best of my knowledge & belief.  \par
\par
Date:                                          \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab  Place: Bangalore \par
\par
 \par
}
 